Adding Request Reason to Access Workflows (#4732)
gravitational/teleport: docs/4.4/enterprise/workflow/index.md

    roles: ['admin']
```

## Adding a Reason to Access Workflows

Teleport 4.4.4 introduced the ability for users to request additional roles. `tctl`
or the Access Workflows API makes it easy to dynamically approve or deny these requests.

> By requiring reason along with an access requesting you can provide users with an
> unprivileged state and must always go through the Access Workflows API  in order to
> gain meaningful privilege.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By requiring a reason along with an access request, you can provide users with a default
unprivileged state where they must always go through the Access Workflows API in order to
gain meaningful privilege.
```

Teams can leverage claims (traits) provided by external identity providers both when
determining which roles a user is allowed to request, and if a specific request
should be approved/denied.

### Example Setup

> **Unprivileged User**<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Unprivileged User**

```

Author: This is needed due to some limits of markdown formatting.

      annotations:
        foo: ['bar']
        groups: ['{% raw %}{{external.groups}}{% endraw %}']
  options:
    # the `request_access` field can be set to 'always' or 'reason' to tell
    # tsh or the web UI to always create an access request on login. If it is
    # set to 'reason', the user will be required to indicate *why* they are
    # generating the access request.
    request_access: reason
    # the `request_prompt` field can be used to tell the user what should
    # be supplied in the request reason field.
    request_prompt: Please provide your ticket ID
version: v3
```

!!! Tip "Wildcard and RegEx Tips"

    Teleport RBAC offers powerful wildcard and RegEx helpers. Below are a few examples.

      `dev-*` - Can request all dev clusters. e.g. dev-prod,dev-stg

      `^prod.*$` - Can request all `prod.*` clusters. e.g. prod.us-east

      `dev-{% raw %}{{regexp.match("us-*")}}{% endraw %}` - Can request any dev cluster in the US. e.g. dev-us-east-a, dev-us-west-b

      `dev-{% raw %}{{regexp.not_match("beta")}}{% endraw %}-prod` - Can request any cluster, apart from beta cluster. e.g. Can access dev-alpha-prod, cannot access dev-beta-prod.

> **Unprivileged User Login**<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Unprivileged User Login**
```

    roles: ['admin']
```

> ## Adding a reason to approval requests

Reviewer 2: access requests

Teleport 4.4.4 introduced the ability for users to request additional roles. `tctl`

> or the Access Workflow API makes it easy to dynamically approve or deny these requests.

Reviewer 3: `Access Workflows API`

> By using notes you can provide users with an unprivileged state and must

Reviewer 2: Sentence is unclear, by `notes` did you mean `access requests`?

Author: I clarified this to be request reason. In early versions we used notes but it wasn't as flexible.

> In the Supporting users that start in an essentially unprivileged state and must

Reviewer: This sentence is mangled

> always go through the Access Workflows API  in order to gain meaningful privilege.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
always go through the Access Workflows API in order to gain meaningful privilege.
```

> Leveraging the claims (traits) provided by external identity providers both when

Reviewer: This sentence is incomplete/malformed

determining which roles a user is allowed to request, and if a specific request
should be approved/denied.

### Example Setup

**Unprivileged User**<br>

> In this example we've a employee, who isn't able to access any systems. When they
> login they'll always need to provide a reason to access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example we have an employee who isn't able to access any systems. When they
log in, they'll always need to provide a reason for access.
```

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: employee
spec:
  allow:
    request:

>       # the `roles` list can now be a mixture of literals and matchers

Reviewer: What's a "matcher" and how do we define it? Do we have a list of acceptable values somewhere?

Author: I'm pretty sure we only support wildcard matching, such as dev-* ? ( @fspmarshall can you confirm? )

Reviewer 4: Wildcards and regexes, so stuff like this also works:
- `^foo.*$`
- `foo-{{regexp.match("bar")}}-baz`
- `foo-{{regexp.not_match("bar")}}-baz`

Author: I've added a quick wildcard/regex tips section.

      roles: ['common', 'dev-*']
      # the `claims_to_roles` mapping works the same as it does in

>       # the oidc connector, with the added benefit that the mapped to roles
>       # can also be matchers.  the below mapping says that users with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # the OIDC connector, with the added benefit that the roles being mapped to
      # can also be matchers. the below mapping says that users with
```

      # the claims `groups: admins` can request any role in the system.
      claims_to_roles:
        - claim: groups
          value: admins
          roles: ['*']

>       # teleport can attach annotations to pending access requests. these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Teleport can attach annotations to pending access requests. these
```

      # annotations may be literals, or be variable interpolation expressions,
      # effectively creating a means for propagating selected claims from an
      # external identity provider to the plugin system.
      annotations:
        foo: ['bar']
        groups: ['{% raw %}{{external.groups}}{% endraw %}']
  options:
    # the `request_access` field can be set to 'always' or 'reason' to tell

>     # tsh of the web UI to always create an access request on login.  If it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # tsh or the web UI to always create an access request on login. If it is
```

    # set to 'reason', the user will be required to indicate *why* they are
    # generating the access request.
    request_access: reason
    # the `request_prompt` field can be used to tell the user what should
    # be supplied in the request reason field.
    request_prompt: Please provide your ticket ID
version: v3
```

**Unprivileged User Login**<br>

```bash
# Login: This will prompt the user to provide a reason in the UI.
tsh login
# Login: The user can provide a reason using tsh.
tsh login --request-reason="..."
```

!!! Note

>     Notice that the above role does not specify any logins. If a users's roles specify no logins, teleport will now generate the user's initial SSH certificates with an invalid dummy login of the form `-teleport-nologin-<uuid>` (e.g. `-teleport-nologin-1e02dbfd-8f6e-47a0-a66c-93747b010f88`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Notice that the above role does not specify any logins. If a users's roles specify no logins, Teleport will now generate the user's initial SSH certificates with an invalid dummy login of the form `-teleport-nologin-<uuid>` (e.g. `-teleport-nologin-1e02dbfd-8f6e-47a0-a66c-93747b010f88`).
```

>     Notice that the above role does not specify any logins. If a users's roles specify no logins, teleport will now generate the user's initial SSH certificates with an invalid dummy login of the form `-teleport-nologin-<uuid>` (e.g. `-teleport-nologin-1e02dbfd-8f6e-47a0-a66c-93747b010f88`).

Reviewer: Incidentally, this login will be invalid because it's longer than the constant which defines max login length and as such it will generate some log spam. rjones' AAP PR suffered from the same thing. We should either raise the constant to account for this or stop using UUIDs as invalid logins.

Author: @fspmarshall Do you have any thoughts on this?

Reviewer 4: Oops, I hadn't noticed.  I'd like to include some randomness, but it doesn't need to be a full UUID.  Something like `-teleport-nologin-1e02dbfd` would work just fine.  For now, @benarent maybe just change the docs to just specify `-teleport-nologin-<random-suffix>` without giving an example?

Author: Fixed in last commit

> **Admin Flow: Approval/Deny**<br>

Reviewer 2: Approval/Denial or Approve/Deny

> A number of new parameters are now available that allow the plugin or administrator to grant greater insight into approvals/denials:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A number of new parameters are now available that grant the plugin or administrator greater insight into approvals/denials:
```
